http://www.gmanetwork.com/news/news/nation/626989/zubiri-hazing-suspects-seek-frat-bros-help-through-palakasan-system/story/

ZUBIRI: HAZING SUSPECTS SEEK FRAT BROS' HELP THROUGH 'PALAKASAN SYSTEM'

Senator Miguel Zubiri on Sunday said that the low conviction rate of hazing suspects may be due to many judges' being members of fraternities themselves.

"Ang kalaban natin dito mga law fraternities, so marami po silang mga kapatid sa prosecution service na mga judges, mga justices," he said in an interview on radio dzBB.

"So minsan ginagamit po nila yung 'palakasan system' para makalusot sa mga kaso," he said.

Zubiri said that only 15 out of 393 suspects have been convicted in the last 15 years.

READ: Only 9 out of 105 hazing cases in 15 years resolved (http://www.gmanetwork.com/news/news/nation/626568/senator-cites-pnp-data-only-9-out-of-105-hazing-cases-in-15-years-resolved/story/)

"So yung mga directly involved, ibabanggit nila yung mga provision sa batas, dito sa Anti-Hazing [Law], na inaawat naman daw nila ay lusot na po sila, hindi na po sila mapi-prison mayor o reclusion perpetua," he added.

'LOOPHOLES'

The senator, who filed a resolution seeking an investigation into the death of suspected hazing victim Horacio "Atio" Castillo III, said that Republic Act No. 8049 or the Anti-Hazing Law has loopholes that allow suspects to be acquitted.

"Gusto po nating amendahan ang batas ni Senator Joel Lina,. With all due respect kay Senator Joel Lina and in fairness to him, siya ang nag-offer ng unang batas na ito after the Lenny Villa case in 1995. Pero sa 22 years after the law has passed, nakita natin na napakaraming loopholes," he said.

"Napakarami sa mga akusado na-acquit sa korte, katulad nitong nangyari sa [Guillo] Servando case, acquitted lahat ng mga suspect. Eh anong ibig sabihin nun? Namatay lang mag-isa si Servando?" he added.

Servando,18, was a student at De La Salle-College of St. Benilde who died from hazing-related injuries in 2014. (http://www.gmanetwork.com/news/news/metro/367837/1-killed-3-others-hurt-in-alleged-hazing-in-manila/story/)

Zubiri said that he wants all forms of hazing to be prohibited as the current law only regulates it.

"So gusto po natin palitan ang batas at gagawin po natin an act prohibiting all forms of hazing kasi yung original, it's an act regulating, ibig sabihin pinapayagan pa rin natin magkaroon ng initiation at hazing for as long as may representante ang eskwelahan doon sa initiation," he said.

Under the Section 3 of the anti-hazing law, "no hazing or initiation rites in any form or manner by a fraternity, sorority or organization shall be allowed without prior written notice to the school authorities or head of organization seven (7) days before the conduct of such initiation.

"The written notice shall indicate the period of the initiation activities which shall not exceed three (3) days, shall include the names of those to be subjected to such activities, and shall further contain an undertaking that no physical violence be employed by anybody during such initiation rites," it added.

It further states in Section 4 that penalties include life imprisonment if a person dies after being subjected to hazing.

Zubiri said that universities and colleges do not follow the provisions of the law.

"Ang nangyayari po hindi naman talaga aamin itong mga schools, itong mga organisasyon na ito at mga fraternity na magkakaroon sila ng initiation na hazing, hindi nila ipinapaalam sa eskwelahan dahil ayaw po nilang malaman ng taga labas ang ginagawa nila sa kanilang tinatawag na sacred initiation rites," he said.

Zubiri said once they get the support of the whole Congress, the law will impose stricter penalties against hazing suspects. - MARLLY ROME C. BONDOC/BM, GMA NEWS