http://www.gmanetwork.com/news/news/nation/667446/trillanes-files-reso-seeking-probe-on-gov-t-projects-awarded-to-bong-go-s-kin/story/

TRILLANES FILES RESO SEEKING PROBE ON GOV'T PROJECTS AWARDED TO BONG GO'S KIN

Senator Antonio Trillanes IV on Wednesday filed a resolution seeking a Senate probe on possible conflict of interest arising from government contracts obtained by the kin of government employees and officials, particularly that of Special Assistant to the President Bong Go.

In Resolution 889, Trillanes asks the Committee on Civil Service, Government Reorganization, and Professional Regulation, which he heads, to conduct the investigation.

The resolution will not automatically go to his committee, as the Senate leadership still has to decide where it will be referred to.

Trillanes, a fierce critic of the Duterte administration, cited a report by the Philippine Center for Investigative Journalism stating that the Davao Region was given the most public works funds by the Department of Public Works and Highways in 2017, with CLTG Builders and Alfrego Builders and Supplies as the top contractors.

The PCIJ report said the two companies are owned by Go's father and stepbrother.

Citing the PCIJ report, Trillanes said CLTG Builders won a total of P1.85 billion worth of infrastructure projects for Davao Region from 2007 to 2017, and another P2.7 billion in joint ventures with four contractors including Alfrego in 2017 alone.

He said CLTG Builders caught the attention of PCIJ's research because it failed to complete all of its joint venture projects within the original deadline.

Trillanes also said CLTG also has a B license, which means that it could not carry out a big-ticket project without a partner.

"Coincidentally, CLTG is also the initials of Go whose full name is Christopher Lawrence Tesoro Go," he said.

Trillanes said government officials are held with higher set of standards and expected at all times to put the interest of the public above their own.

"Hence, there is an urgent need to look into this matter as conflict of interest or undue influence exerted by government officials and employees in the conduct of government transactions threatens the quality of service the public is receiving," he said.

The senator added the probe has an end view of coming up with possible remedial legislation to prevent the occurrence or recurrence of such situations in the future.

Go earlier expressed willingness to attend the investigation (http://www.gmanetwork.com/news/news/nation/667213/go-welcomes-probe-on-pa-s-gov-t-deals-wants-to-see-trillanes-hideout/story/).

"I welcome any and all investigation or Senate inquiry that Trillanes will call in relation to my family's alleged involvement in 'billions of pesos' worth of projects... Kahit bukas pwede akong sumalang sa Senado para naman mabisita ko siya kung saan siya nagtatago," Go said.

"In the course of the investigation, if my involvement will be proven and substantiated by facts and documents, I will immediately tender my resignation. But if the allegations are fake and concocted, then my accuser, Senator Trillanes, should resign," he added.

Presidential spokesperson Harry Roque, on the other hand, said the Senate has the power to conduct investigations in aid of legislation.

"I'm not aware of conflict of interest on the part of anyone and I'm sure SAP Bong Go can very well defend himself," he told reporters.

Go in February faced the Senate inquiry on the controversial frigate acquisition project of the Philippine Navy.

During the inquiry, Go denied reports that he intervened in the frigate deal or influenced the selection process for the combat management system (CMS) of the two new warships to be built by a South Korean firm. -WITH A REPORT FROM VIRGIL LOPEZ/KBK/KG, GMA NEWS